to Israel now which says its troops have
killed a Palestinian militant commander
in the raid in the occupied West Bank at
least 16 Palestinians have been killed
in the operation that began late on
Tuesday Israel says the raid is aimed at
destroying terrorist infrastructure the
UN Secretary General has called for the
operation to end Antonio gutes said it
was fueling an already explosive
situation in the West Bank the operation
is currently focused on refugee camps in
tuas
Janine and
taram here in the shattered streets of
taram Israel says it has already
achieved significant success this is the
largest military operation in the
occupied West Bank in years it says
local Islamic Jihad leader Muhammad
jabber seen here in file footage was
killed in gunfight at a mosque Israeli
troops had tried and failed before to
eliminate jabber he's accused of
carrying out numerous attacks on
Israelis
Palestinian civilians are once again
paying the cost of the Israeli
raids we were asleep and woke up to the
gunshots at around 3:30 a.m. I started
waking my wife up telling her the Army
are shooting at the house I was barely
able to wake her up and they hit the
house with a rocket we ran my wife and I
to the other room they fired another
rocket my son and his wife are on the
second floor they hit them with a rocket
his family was able to escape their home
with their lives While others are afraid
to go outside watching the chaos unfold
around
them the situation is difficult the Army
comes and goes their movements are not
normal it's quiet here but when the
bulldozers come they destroy everything
we're afraid we hear the bulldozers the
shooting now there is bombing in Gaza
now there is bombing in the refugee camp
Israeli forces roaming the streets in
search of militants have also created
serious problems for the Health Care
system in the areas being
raided medical workers say troops are
blocking access to
ambulances the Israeli Army refuses
entirely to allow ambulances to enter
whether uncoordinated or coordinated
even if we are allowed to enter as you
see the ambulances cannot access the
camps or even reach humanitarian cases
and people with diseases
the UN is urging Israel to ensure
injured people can obtain medical care
it's also calling for a halt to the
operation in the West Bank saying the
campaign is fueling an already explosive
situation and for more on that we can
I'll speak to DW correspondent Tanya ker
who joins me from Jerusalem Tanya you
were in tarem just yesterday give us a
sense of the situation
there well what we could see and we
couldn't go into shamas the one of the
refugee camps there in Karim that was
you know is the main place where the
Israeli Army uh is uh was operating uh
uh yesterday uh we could see the large
destruction that was left behind there
by uh the bulldozers they're going in we
could see the Army vehicles coming in
and out also hearing uh some explosions
and uh shootings uh there and seeing the
ambulances actually waiting outside uh
on one of the main roads uh um then to
to go in uh from uh time uh to time but
uh we could also see the impact mainly
on on tarum the city of tarum itself
where I was able to talk to some people
saying you know they they have
experienced of course military raids
many many times this is a daily
occurrence in the occupied West Bank but
they're saying this is very intense and
most have been staying in the safety uh
of their homes uh uh trying not to be uh
too much uh in the streets uh as the
Army also of course uses now drones and
air strikes uh in uh the West Bank now
we are hearing from the Israeli military
this morning that they had targeted uh
Palestinian gunmen in a drone strike in
the city uh of Janine uh the military
said it will provide further information
later on so uh according to Palestinian
reports there a car was targeted and
there are also reports of other uh raids
and other uh cities in the occupied West
Bank so this operation is
ongoing uh T we'll come back to you in a
moment to talk about another issue
Israel and the World Health Organization
have agreed to begin a polio vaccination
campaign for children in the Gaza Strip
on Sunday it involves apparently a
series of three-day pauses in fighting
to allow health workers to administer
the vaccine Hamas says it's supporting
the plan gaza's hospital system has been
devastated by fighting since last
October leading to a General Health
crisis there
one and a half-year-old elen bker is too
weak to move she lie still on this
hospital bed with her mom and
grandmother by her
side due to malnutrition she's
dehydrated and it has caused serious
complications she's limp has low
potassium acid in her blood and
infections in both
lungs these complications make
Contracting poo potentially fatal for
Ilan now with a 3-day truce agreed her
family hopes she can safely receive the
much needed
vaccine the truth begins on September
1st with over
64,000 children under 10 years old
expected to be vaccinated
it's critical that we reach 90%
vaccination that we get 90% n
9090 vaccination coverage during each
round there will be two rounds and with
a split of four weeks uh that is needed
actually you need 90% plus to stop the
outbreak uh the transmission within Gaza
and prevent International spread polio
and while the truce May save hundreds of
thousands from polio it's only
temporary after the truce ends the lives
of those children in Gaza and their
families remain at risk as the polar
outbreak is just one part of a larger
Public Health
catastrophe let's go back to T in
Jerusalem uh T three days of U limited
pauses in fighting uh can you explain
what more do we know
there well it's not entirely clear yet
how this will play out or the all the
details of this vaccination campaign as
we just heard now the World Health
Organization said they have agreed with
the Israeli military or that they are
supportive of this vaccination uh
campaign uh that would allow uh the uh
teams in Gaza to actually reach out to
the people there uh to vaccinate uh
those children that has become really
necessary after a case of polio was
detected in a toddler in Gaza that is
said to be the first case in in 25 years
now we've heard from the uh government
from officials from the Israeli
government they remained much more vague
there was actually a statement uh by the
prime minister's office uh uh published
on Wednesday they refuted the idea of
pauses in fighting they were talking
about allocating certain places in the
Gaza Strip to allow this uh vaccination
to take place now this would happen
according to the World Health
Organization in three different zones
that could last two three days in
certain time zones now eight agencies
have said it's absolutely necessary to
be able to plan that they get some you
know clarity about this because it's so
difficult as so many Garin have been
under evacuation order and displaced
again in recent days time and time again
and it's very very difficult to reach
out to all these people that they also
feel safe to come uh to these
vaccination points if this will all play
out as they have
planned the correspondent Tanya ker
there reporting from Jerusalem thank you
Tanya